Minutes 2021-06-09 (#221)
solid/authorization-panel: meetings/2021-06-09.md

# 2021-06-09 Solid Authorization

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization

## Agenda

* Minutes https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/220
    * Previous week actions?
* Proposal (from Justin B) - Panel attention on authorization / consent workflows (e.g. trusted agent pattern from interop)

## Present

* Henry S
* Justin B
* Matthieu B

## Minutes

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### UC3: Inheritance

```

There is a vein of it as well about verifiable credentials.
At a minimum we need to start talking about it to figure out where it's gonna live.
We rely on this pattern in interoperability and there's gonna be reliance on it in the ecosystem.
But we haven't dug into the mechanics of how you communicate with your authorization agent.
It feels like the right time to dig in here (I know Pavlik agrees).
Maybe even have 

Matthieu: Would UMA be a way to advertise which credentials are required to access a resource.

Justin: UMA existed before VC. It's one pattern we rely on in interop so users can provide fine grained access to their data.
I'm not proposing starting working on UMA, just looking at the workflow patterns of authorization agents.
Can you use or take advantage of verifiable credentials in a number of ways?
Storing decisions. Doing use case for authorization by credentials. I don't know which authorization you want and sending them all defeats the pattern.
An authorization server you trust would be an answer.

> The pattern of having you authorisation agent would answer some questions.

Author: I think this would be your own authorization agent.
But it was definitely a more challenging stream of thoughts to accurately capture.
Maybe @justinwb can help fill the blanks ^^,
I'm afraid I lost a bit here.

> The pattern of having you authorisation agent would answer some questions.

Author: ```suggestion
The pattern of having your own authorisation agent would answer some questions.
```

  * [Application Interoperability Walkthrough - Part 1](https://solid-interop-public.s3.amazonaws.com/application-interoperability-walkthrough-part-1.mp4) (VIDEO)
  * [Application Interoperability Walkthrough - Part 2](https://solid-interop-public.s3.amazonaws.com/application-interoperability-walkthrough-part-2.mp4) (VIDEO)

Henry: The authorization agent says this app can access this kind of resources. So we're back to something like we could use owl. For example everything tagged banking...

Justin: What we do in Interop is organise data by type using shapetrees. So when you get access, you essentially get access to a type within a scope. So the decision I make is an access grant and can be stored in my Pod with other grants. It's a pretty big subject for 8mn. This is a layer above it.

Access Grant for Acme Project:
![](https://i.imgur.com/bfngw64.jpg)

Justin: This is what the authorisation agent create.
We just show the grants here, but the access needs groups stores what was requested and what was granted.
You can actually do a diff and store it if you want more access.

Henry: I think it's close to my proposal on my launcher app.

Justin: Wasn't it proxying all the time?

> Henry: In an ideal world, (simple), the app shouldn't get access to the internet without going through the authorisation proxy. Imagine the app can only access web via your own managed proxy. You don't give it any cookies or certificates unless it goes through it. Now the proxy would have to know for each app which type of resources it has access to and what it can do with it. Perhaps some apps on your system and then you open when comfortable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Henry: In an ideal world, (simple), the app shouldn't get access to the internet without going through the authorization proxy. Imagine the app can only access web via your own managed proxy. You don't give it any cookies or certificates unless it goes through it. Now the proxy would have to know, for each app, which type of resources it has access to and what it can do with it. Perhaps some app's on your system and then you open when comfortable.
```

# 2021-06-09 Solid Authorization

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization

## Agenda

* Minutes https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/220
    * Previous week actions?

> * Proposal (from Justin B) - Panel attention on authorization / consent workflows (e.g. trusted agent pattern from interop)

Author: ```suggestion
* Use Case 3: Inheritance https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/216
* Proposal (from Justin B) - Panel attention on authorization / consent workflows (e.g. trusted agent pattern from interop)
```
